Before, all the components in
React that we've been making
have been just static, which means
that we've been hard-coding it.
Now, the question is, how do you get data
from one component into another component?
And the way that we supply data to a
component is via something called props.
Now if you are used to HTML which I assume
you are, these are just regular HTML tags.
And we have these things called attributes
like type and class and source and alt.
And what are these attributes used for?
Well, maybe you have an image tag
of "dog.jpg," and alt will say,
"A Cool Dog."
These are just ways that you can supply
additional information to the tag.
Now, in React props, it works exactly the
same way. If you want to pass information
to a tag, you pass it via a prop. So what
I want to do is go to our app layout right
here, and we'll go to our Header tag.
Now this is our Header component,
which we've made, and we can simply just
make up as many attributes as we want.
So if I say tagline equals "Fresh Seafood
Market," what we've done there is we've
passed a tagline prop to that argument.
Now if we go back to our Header.js here,
and we were to then scaffold out some of
our HTML here. So we need a header tag
of the class of top. And inside of that,
I want an H1 tag that says
"Catch of the Day." Below that, I want H3
with a class of tagline. And that will
just say, "Fill Me In." And then we're
going to come back and make that
little bit right here dynamic. Because
maybe you're building an application
where the tagline is going to
be different from store to store.
I'll give that a save.
It should automatically refresh. Good.
Don't worry if that doesn't look exactly
like the answer here. We're going to
figure that out in a second.
But you see that we have this little bit
of "Fill Me In." Now, what I want you to
do is open your React DevTools here.
Find that header component in React.
And you're going to see that this header
component now has something called props.
And there's tagline.
I just made up tagline. I just pulled that
out of thin air. You can name your props
whatever you wish to name them.
And then that data will then be made
available to the component.
So if I had another one like age
equals 5000 and cool equals...
like, I wanted to pass like a Boolean,
I would pass it then with a curly, we'll
look at that in a second. Then we refresh
here, go back to our React DevTools.
Click header, you now see that we've got a
string, string and a Boolean being passed.
So that's how I give this header component
a little bit more information.
That's gonna be really useful when you
need to pass our fish tag information
above that specific fish. Now, if we go
on the other side, which is Header.js,
how do we access the information inside of
it? Well, that's done via something called
props. Now, one thing we haven't done yet
is, how do you put variables into jsx?
And the way that you do that is you
delete the text here, open up one set
of curly brackets. And you say
"this.props.tagline." Now, what is
"this.props?" Well, "this" is going to
refer to the actual component.
"Props" is going to be an object like this
that's available to us. And then we can
simply call ".tagline.cool" or ".h."
Now you give that a save.
You'll see, automatically, this "Fresh
Seafood Market" has been updated.
So if I could go on into my app here,
I can change this to say anything
that I well desire, "Wes Is Cool!"
Give it a save.
And it will swap it out
with whatever text.
I also want to show you one thing here.
If we go to Header.js and right above our
return, inside of the render yet, let's
just console.log this and see really what
we're dealing with here. We've got this,
open that up. This is our entire component
right here. And then inside of that,
you've got something called props.
And that's just the object that contains
all of the data that you want.
And you can use this .props.whatever
anywhere inside of this render method,
and it's going to be made
available to you.
One other cool thing about React DevTools
is if we go to React here,
and you open it up, and you click on one
of your components called Header,
you'll see this little thing in the corner
that says "$r" in the console.
And what that does is, if you ever need
just play with your React DevTools,
you click on the current component that
you want, go back to your console here and
just type in "$r" and that is going to be
equal to the current component.
You can say "$r.props.tagline" and that
will give you Fresh Seafood Market.
So if you're ever trying to just debug
something on the command line here,
just select the actual component that you
want and you can type "$r" in the console.
That also works in just regular javascript
as well. Let's say you wanted to check one
of these things right here, like this one.
So I clicked on this one,
go to your console and type "$0." That
will give you the current element there.
You can do things like classList
and see all the classes on it.
So those two are helpful when
you're working in the React DevTools.
Now, I just want to go back to our App
and clean this up.
I don't need the cool and age,
I just need tagline is equal to true.
And that is how you use props. We're going
to be doing it quite a bit more.
And then we're also going to be looking at
something called "prop types" which will
allow you to validate that, A, data is
passed, and B, the data that is passed is
the correct type. So if it's expecting a
number or a function, it's going to error
out if it gives you a string and that will
help you make nice really rigid
components. One last thing we need to do
is make this Catch of the Day look like it
doesn't look terrible. So go to your
header and there's just some extra HTML
that we need to add to this. So put your
"Catch of the Day" on its own line.
And the word Catch, it's fine. Then we'll
have a "span" with class of "of the."
Inside of that, we'll have a span with the
class of "of" and a span with the class of
"the." And we'll just put "of" "the",
and then we'll leave day on its own line.
That should give us the nice little
anchor. Good. You can see the anchor,
it's good. And then we also don't have
a white background behind that.
So what we're going to do here is
just wrap this entire thing in a Span.
That should give us that nice,
white background. Good.